wofl — Today at 03:42
i was either 7 and thinikng about space lego or 15 and smonking pot n trying to fuck people cos so much hormones teens are basically not able to be expected to even balance upright 
ggdi
be kind to self
you have all the time in the world
no rekease deadline
(amy) — Today at 03:43
I’m tryin
wofl — Today at 03:43
no oressure
no-one to sue if fuckup
we protoing still
we do cos we love
if something is chore than somthing is amisspause and take new perspective.
...
here's cool change of topic:
i actually experienced solving a problem after a dream!
i felt all cool like i was einstin or feinmann or someone
😄
(amy) — Today at 03:46
Haha nice
What happened
wofl — Today at 03:46
and,if am honest - itasnt all abstract andd weird; it asnt deep and meaningful and powerful; it wasnt some intense representatio via weird analogy type shit either
i was most of dream kinda trad dream bot mungled up recall of concrete n tiles in a non-specific bland colour, graffitti, dripping down walls satins of water from rain,  occasional uddles, odd verby/echoey sorta vibe - very berlin 80s.
there was mixed in stuff about trying to get somewhere but i kept getting blocked by must be quiet - exams, univerity exams, the library - don't go in, exams', and always three doors to the library -'maybe one will allow passage, the others are EXAMS BE QUIET. must get right door...'
[recalled upon waiting something in a jounral referencing the monty hall experimental concept of always switch when offered mutli choice and weird unitnuitive statistical math dictates you'll win more often - three doors to choose, shouldve swicthed. was about ai algo's using monty hall method stats math for increased efficiency of getting to best succes rate of choosing patch way through immense data sett choice.]
lol
anyways, i overall aimof dream was to get somehwere else in city and needed to go y train- no money, too far to walk - decided to hop train.
wofl — Today at 03:53
somehow enddeed up near very kinda underground industrial kinda area and there was brief interlude of sorta twin curved wall steep stairs descending very claustrophobically lit walls narrowing impossibly to access the rail place, but also some supervisor figure requiring a snale past down the no plce to hide impossibly narrowning stair spirals.
neer theless, as typical for me, chated this bit of dream 'getting stress/difficult, lets just turn few pages til is interest/fun again' [i swaer i don't/can't use this approach irl]]`; and next thing dream bluntly segues to sorta platform/station thing, and others waiting
as i lurk trign to sneak down the rails below platform unnoticed, a girl approaches
wofl — Today at 04:00
this is why this is all so funny and not like an einstein respectable "i'm a nobel prize scientistdream solution" thing:
my overhwelming emotion from whole thing of dream was base human emote - lust.
she was hot - trans girl, but in what can only be described using a slightly nowadays un-pc term 'tomboy' - when i was kid, people woulda just thought nothing more than 'prolly prefers climbing trees to laying with dolls' rather than somefucking woke not letting people be who they wanna be shot and over signalling hw good they are at not fucking up like humans do... either way, i just saw someone who was both clearly female, biut also very much masuline ned of the scale yet sexy not as big muscle/testosterone male but cute, straight male see female attraction - very plain innocent non-judgemental refreshning just insatn 'om, like you, i wanna be your fren and make you feel really nice.'.
so when she approached, i engaged in cnversation, and was clear she was smort. like real smort. like had figured out i was trying to sneak onto tracks, and therefore liekly since suicidal people tend not to give a fuck who sees, probly wanting to jjump a train
she tells me she also gonna hop train, and totally halps out with info on how theyre prepping track for special steam train passing though somehwere and there will be engineering and both lack of normal commercial commuter traffic/people present, but also lots of distraccs, unusual cars with easy access etc.
so we everrtually get onto tracks and walk dwn sorta underground tunnel to reach a sorta fenced in area - seemingly no way to leabe the tracks either side, high chainlink fence eve  tho ot really underground or regular eople area any more
wofl — Today at 04:08
there's a hazy bit of weird logic about running water sounds and greenery = river so therre must be way over fence [? why???]; anyways, this leads to a bit of acrobatics across some concrete ledges, odd source of peril in form of hot ptich/btumen/tar being heated/melted for someindustrious kinda surfacing/roofing purpose that seems spuriously just my brain liking to add the trad hollywood adrenalin bit [lol, not even joke - so fucking formulaic....]; and fnally we reach a switching yard
uge open space, every damn inch rails - rows and rws and rows with points to shuffle cars around, left/right, back, forth, reordering etc.
it's just steel rails, damp/grimy gravel,  lots of scrubby weeds scattered across the area anda bucha low slung sota engineer trnasport wagons that are juts wheels and a load bed with railsn sleepers.
we see one being hhoked up and ready to be towed, hop on so easy it's nearly boring and off into the sunset.
the end.
never even got to kiss her.
:'<
kinda sweet and perfecc n unspoilt in a way tho.
sorta good i guess - maybe better that way.
🙂
(amy) — Today at 04:14
Aw that seems like a nice dream
wofl — Today at 04:15
the fact i woke up and really hinestly near immediate just jumped from [rails and points and switching etc.] to 'omg! can do a system of turn knob til get T or X or - or whatever then click knob to lock in and that will be the routing solution for alll the bloks of dif synth architecture in ui with no layers of menu, key pad, typing, numbers/symbols, abrrevs. or anything - just bip-bip-bip-bip thoguh to oe you wanna change, turn knob and clik. routing for real com-plex just slight switching cars btween rail lines etc. 
T to join two side y side and one from belwow 
- for one serial to next
| to fm one or ¦ to feed signal in not serial left right
X for ring mod or morph or something
> for morph or mix or something 
etc.
such simple and elegant and inutitive graphic/single component to operate. yet it wasnt a process fo hrs and hrs and iterations and rejected ideas and stressing and deliberation. 
just pure insta BANG - ALLL THERE, AS IF SOME ONE UL'ED WHILST SLEEP
fucking weirdest experience
is this how some people think all the time? they just kinda... know shit?
i feel like the first time i used a mac and thought back to trying to play a game on amstrad cpc464 as a kid, loading game programs off a tape, 10mins at a time, ooooooooooooooeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesssssssssscccccchghhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhvvvvvvvvvvvvvv'
wofl — Today at 04:22
it's like cheating - is too easy

i'm still slight sorta warm glow of recall cute dream grill
i hope in some al reality dream was real and happily eer after
well. afai grok, it infinite times both did and didn't all else possible or resultingly possible even if previously impossible besides
wofl — Today at 04:29
as long as causality allows, all infitites are extended for eternity. time creates more space in the realm of possible than you can ever concieve 
this comforts me
🙂