Pulsar Synthesis
Pulsar synthesis is a type of synthetic sound generation described by Curtis Roads and belongs to the group of granular synthesis . [1] While in other forms of synthesis a whole band is generated from the specific waveform and then pitch-shifted depending on the frequency , the oscillators in pulsar synthesis generate individual periods of pulsaret length and intergrain time, the length of which can be changed independently of the fundamental frequency.


Table of contents
1	functionality
2	Difference to pulse width modulation
3	use
4	literature
5	itemizations
How it works 
The pulsar synthesis oscillators are sound generators that provide the usual raw material of waveforms (such as sine or sawtooth ). They differ from other forms of synthesis only in that they synthesize the waveform in discrete pulses ( Grains) generate and the pulsaret length can be changed during generation. A grain consists of the pulsaret length, which contains the actual waveform, and the integral time. Integral time is the zero line to fill the period. As with any other form of granular synthesis, these grains are copied and assembled according to the fundamental frequency. Increasing the pulsaret length can lead to it becoming longer than the fundamental period. This will launch the next pulsaret before the end of the previous one, overlapping it for a brief moment.

Difference to pulse width modulation 
The pulse width modulationis a type of modulation that is used in many forms of synthesis and is therefore not a type of synthesis in its own right. The width of the pulse (pulsaret length) can be changed, but the period remains the same. Thus, only the ratio of pulsaret length and integral time is changed directly, while the constant periods as a whole band of the waveform are pitch-shifted depending on the desired frequency. With pulsar synthesis, on the other hand, the individual components of the period (pulsar ret length and integral time) can be variably influenced. Thus, for example, pulsaret length and integral time can be increased while the ratio remains the same. This is possible because the next period can be started before the previous one is finished. Thus, the pulsar synthesis is also considered an independent form of synthesis.

Usage 
The first VSTi synthesizer that works with Pulsar synthesis is Hamburg-Audio's NUKLEAR [2] , which was released in 2011 . Impulse modeling synthesis (IMS) is a further development of pulsar synthesis. It was used in Tone2's 2013 RayBlaster.

Literature 
Curtis Roads: Microsound. MIT Press, Cambridge MA et al. 2004, ISBN 0-262-68154-4 .
Itemizations 
 Curtis Roads: Introduction to pulsar synthesis . In: The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America . tape 109 , no. 5 , May 1, 2001, ISSN  0001-4966 , pp. 2401–2401 , doi : 10.1121/1.4744478 ( scitation.org [accessed 17 April 2022]).
Hamburg-Audio ( Memento from October 23, 2011 in the Internet Archive )
Category :sound synthesis