overall:


not planning any requirement for interacting with any displays whatsoever - no menus, no alt/shift modes, no nothing - theyre for info/feedback etc. not interacting with. 

output volume - [affects no synthesis part].

pitch - affects: [1 knob over 4 destinations]
modal fb
waveguide x 2
pulsar


plan modal to have: [ideally 4 total variables, if the filter is calculated as one functione solved in one go it cant be too bad...?] 
- stiffness
- pickup position -i think?
- damping

all given as real coefficient present in functions representing musical use of modal synthesis in literature, but
elements genrated all stiffness, pickup position effects, geometry purporting to be different body models and resonating element models - brightness from a damping filter and a dispersion filter - by combing various aoutns of frequency detune and damping scaling or dispersion scaling in an impressively complex set of interactions no actual physical modelling function was ever used. 
 
- 'geometry' or in any other context of modal synthesis the resonating body model, is not really seen as a single continuous variable since it would require morphing entire filter bank functions - interpolating between maybe 10 different fucntions that could have up to 64 separate parts for each value of K.
hence i dont expect to vary filter function as affects model employed.

i would however love to achieve  some form of 4th control as well as the damping, stiffness and pickup position.
maybe simply i'll leave that available for the modulation of something - i dodnt leave myself enough scope  for modulation on my previos design attempts.


wavguide synths: [need only 4 controls? only one voice model not 64 modes even if theres things being morphed between - the coefficients these controls would vary are consistent across the different fucntions that represent the models]
- length
- damping- 
- dispersion
- maybe some nonlinearity specific
that lot are x 2 cos 2 waveguide synths

pulsar synth:
pulsaret waveform select - just scroll through a wavetable bank
pulsaret env sel - as above
duty cycle env sel - as above
pulsret env scale - simple 1d value change of a waveform
duty cycle env sccale - as above
PulwM crossfade amount - it a direct vary coefficient thing
output env arttack - simple single value very
single switch for OPulWM on/off

how do i solve the issue of going from internally generated wave choices to user loaded wave choices?


waverfolding of vco output that poputlate the internal pulsaret waveform wavetable
- single value easy avry


want some kind of save patch/load patch thing
how do in only one or two things maximum?


think can do the mixing between amount of pulsar/modal fb/waveguides/convolved result/etc. in one simple section using that hyperspherical mix map thing?
also can probly minimise the mid-side/panning; 3 band eq wiht total of maybe 4 - 6 control inputs?


spatial spectral map thing might be justa  single knob to select map to apply...


if having analogue BBD or analogue distortion option on outpout then thats not really like to involve the cpu etc.?



biggest unknown is modulation - scanning around a 3d synthesis model space is the kind of thing synth people love a load of lfos and envelopes for. they really like matrices that allow selsection of a number of source/destination routing setups quite compactly and simply
[unffortunately i hate that shit so i'm pretending its not an issue yet...]

